My
name is Tim Welbes, and I'm 44 years old. I'm the
Senior Vice President of Residential Operations
for the Woodlands. I grew up in Houston, Texas. My
folks moved there in the very early 50s. And I went
to St. Thomas High School, graduated from
University of Houston with a business degree. I
went to work at Ernst & Ernst on the audit staff. I
worked in public accounting for about six or seven
years. One of our tax clients was a home builder on
the west side of Houston named John Pace.
He made more money than Leon Jaworski and all of us
young accountants and taxmen were very impressed
with that.
got to a stage in my career where I knew that public
accounting was not where I wanted to spend my
career or my life for another moment and got out of
it. Were you a CPA? Yes. You were a serious
accountant? I was serious. I was CPA. I was
certified. I'd spent several years on the audit
staff and several years in tax and had gotten a wide
exposure to a lot of different corporations. And
one of the things that I realized about myself was
that one, I enjoyed selling very much and dealing
with people and dealing with current events as
opposed to the public accounting sort of business
which is dealing with history. And the other thing
that I wanted to do was to get involved in some
business or some enterprise that dealt with
people making an important decision as opposed to
perhaps a retail operation where you sell
hundreds or thousands of transactions a day or a
week, but it may not be a significant one. And
residential real estate is one that deals with
significant transactions for the home buyer.
Now, by significant, you mean, I
don't want to put words in your mouth. Sure. But are
you saying that one of your motivations was, in
fact, I'm not really just interested in making
money. I also want to make a difference. Am I
reading what you're saying? well in selling and
like all sales people i think psychologically
what you're after is you want that customer to buy
from you because that's a form of their acceptance
of you and i think as a motivation i feel that and
felt that i didn't want them to buy my product
and be successful selling mobile phones or car
telephones or something else. I wanted to be
successful in selling them a product that was
going to be an important purchase for them,
something that would be meaningful. And the
residential home sales business was one that was
exciting in Houston in the 70s and more exciting
now. I understand that, but what I don't
understand is why you felt that way. I don't know. I
just felt it. I don't know. I just felt it. It just
felt good. So in a roundabout way, I eventually was
hired by John Pace to go to work for him as a
salesman, and then to put together a sales and
marketing department. And as it turned out, he was
bought out by a Canadian developer, a small
developer. And I got to run that home building
company for about two years. And in 81, Like many
other highly leveraged developers who were
dealing with prime at 21%, you can't make enough
money to stay in business. I resigned and went to
work for Standard Pacific Homes, which is a New
York stock exchange company. The PACE operation
was one that dealt with primarily custom homes.
Standard Pacific, on the other hand, dealt with
what's called a production home building
operation, wherein you have a very limited menu of
floor plans, perhaps five or six for a given
subdivision. You'll do two or three models.
You'll sell out of the model homes. And Standard
Pacific was in an exciting growth mode. They were
adding eight, nine, 10 subdivisions in the total
Houston area, had some 40 some odd employees. And I
came on board as VP Sales and Marketing for them.
About a year and a half later, they removed the
Houston division manager. And I was fortunate
enough to replace him. And in that position and in
the 82, 83 period,
I knew that Standard Pacific, for their own
well-being, needed to get into the major master
plan communities in Houston. The only one they
were in was First Colony. And so I was proceeding to
contact friends with them. Why did you know
that? What I knew about new home sales at that time
told me that the market was nowhere near as good as
the sales numbers reflected. And in effect, what
was happening at that time, mortgage rates might
have been 14%. The new home builders were buying
down mortgages to the 8%, 9%, 10% mortgage rate.
And the way you do that is the builder prepays 5, 10,
15 points and provides the home purchaser, if you
will, the home buyer signs a contract for $70,000.
He's getting a $60,000 house. but there's $10,000
worth of finance built into the price. So what we
were doing, obviously, was stealing from the
resale market because the resale seller could not
go out and provide the kind of financing. And so we
were selling to a market that really wasn't there.
Also, just in paying attention to the financial
markets and what oil was doing and Houston was into
a collapsing mode, it was clear that or it appeared
to me that the
less well-planned or the less sized communities
would be the first to start feeling the sales stop.
Because it would be less marketable? There was
just less demand. There were too many empty houses
appearing, too many people leaving town.
You just... You just sensed that in the
marketplace, the very good would survive. But
anything that was marginal to marginally good
would probably take it on the chin, and the sales
would decline there much more steeply than they
would in the better, bigger communities. So in
that context of trying to get standard Pacific
homes into the woodlands, I met Roger Gladys and Ed
Lee, and
they then had a situation internally where VP
Sales, Marketing, Residential transferred to
the Commercial Division and I had interviewed
with Joe Collard, Spencer Stewart, former M&D
Human Resources Executive on another matter and
unbeknownst to me the opening in the Woodlands had
occurred and then Joe Collard called me and asked
if we could talk about a position with the
Development Corporation. And at the time, in
1985, I think my family was comprised of a
four-year-old, a three-year-old, a
one-year-old, and my wife was pregnant. She was
from Minnesota. The woods in the woodlands were
beautiful.
It was a point in time in my residential home
building career that I felt I had learned a lot from
the custom program with John Pace. I'd learned a
lot in the production home building side of it from
Standard Pacific. But I'd never dealt with
residential development and the work that the
developer does and how you put together a
community and plan and build lots. And I had always
dealt with the retail level of selling the home to
the home buyer.
Personally, I was looking at raising the family in
the Westheimer, Derry-Ashford area. And if you
contrast that as a neighborhood for your kids to
grow up versus the Woodlands, it's pretty much a
no-brainer. The Woodlands is pretty attractive.
And we made that move in 85. Standard Pacific is
alive and well in Houston. They're still trying to
get into the Woodlands, but the Woodlands still
doesn't have room for them. And I have very much
enjoyed the chance to come here and learn about the
development side. And in that sense, my hopes were
fulfilled that I've learned a lot about the
development business, but I've also learned
from the inside how the Woodlands continued to,
and at the time they had just had an article in Money
Magazine, called a pocket of prosperity, because
within Houston and the decline that everybody was
aware of, the Woodlands stood out and was
recognized nationally. And for those of us at that
time who were outside the Woodlands and just in the
Houston area, one would remark to another that the
Woodlands is constantly breaking new ground,
doing something new that's a very active,
creative, happening kind of place, which seems to
have its air of pending success and some
ever-building critical mass. And it just looked
like a great place to build homes or live in if you
just could work out a situation that would allow
you to live there and coordinate that with your
workplace, and I was delighted with the chance to
come up here. So that was in 85? Yeah. Because that
was hard times, too. That was the beginning of hard
times. Because the Woodlands enjoyed success
only, well, in a relative sense. Correct.
Compared to what was going on everywhere else.
Correct, correct. It was very relative. Within
the Woodlands, once I got here,
I think in that year, and this is... When
I arrived here, or in 1985, I think we sold
somewhere in the vicinity of 400 houses that year.
And
just in strategizing about what to do with
residential for the woodland's sake, and talking
with experts in the business, it was clear that the
Houston market was not going to be the source of
homebuyers. And that if there was going to be any
success in new housing, it would have to come from
dealing with out-of-town buyers who were coming
to Houston. Was that a conscious marketing?
Definitely. Very conscious decision to focus on
the out-of-town buyer. In the past, in the late
70s, early 80s, everybody took it for granted. I
think the magazine Texas Monthly article talked
about 365 cars a day being added to the traffic
count in Houston. And the out-of-town market was
just like the humidity. It was just part of
Houston. You took it for granted. But in the
mid-80s, when the market declined and Houston was
shrinking back,
There was, as has been characterized, the flight
to quality. And a whole lot of factors started
moving in the Woodlands' favor in the 85, 86
period. Some of them were external, some were
internal. The internal factors that we undertook
were to take one of the ladies from the information
center and create a residential marketing
position whose function would be to go out and deal
with any company relocating people to Houston or
any company who announced the hiring of employees
to make sure that their human resources director
or the realtor that they chose to help their
employee would have our full complement of
brochures and videotapes and so on and so forth.
Was that a success? Yes. A measurable success in
that five years ago or so, I think 35% to 40% of our
new home sales involved what's called a
third-party broker or a realtor who got the co-op
commission for bringing the buyer to the
Woodlands. Today, in the custom homes, it's
around 88%. I think Woodlands-wide, it runs
around 75% to 80% involved a third-party realtor.
An external factor that was also taking place was
the realty companies were forming reload
directors. And we naturally... But you had
already beat that trend. Well, we were parallel
with it. In other words, we said, how can we get to
the out-of-town buyer? The answer was, get with
the realtor. The realtor community said, how can
we get to the out-of-town buyer? They took a look at
their staff or hired an outsider and said, we want
this particular person to be the representative
of Henry S. Miller or Coldwell Banker to go to these
employers and let them know that Henry S. Miller
will be the best broker for them to deal with. And
another external factor was the constriction in
the oil patch. And what was happening was the
various oil companies headquartered in Houston
would shut down a satellite office in Midland or
Denver or wherever and reduce the staff but retain
a few key people and transfer them back to Houston.
And so we had our representative, the realty
companies, and the reload director within the
realty company going to those oil-related
employers to assist them in getting their
employee moved many times back to Houston, or at
least transferred back to the home office in
Houston. Another external factor was that the
Coldwell Banker and the major national realty
companies would go to an Anadarko or an Enron or
Chevron Any of these other, Enron, for example,
was one that moved many, many people from
Nebraska. Well, a major realty company would go to
Enron and say, especially if Enron was going to
accommodate the purchase of their old home in
Nebraska, and say, let Coal Banker handle this for
you. In other words, we will come to you, Enron, and
let you know what the home in Nebraska is worth and
how much you ought to pay on your guaranteed
buyout. In the meantime, when they get off the
plane in Houston, one of our agents will be there to
assist them in finding a home in the Houston area.
And a move is traumatic. A move, when you've had
friends and coworkers laid off, is even more
traumatic. And everybody in the oil patch
wondered if this move was their last move, or would
they be pink-slipped as well. And there's a lot of
anxiety. So a lot of that- Driving in Houston
intercontinental is traumatic. I mean, I don't
want to knock our freeways, because they've
improved dramatically. But coming from
especially Enron was a good example, where those
people had never, ever moved before. Some of the
people had been employed at one location for 18,
20, 23 years, and then they were told, your job is
moving to Houston. If you want to keep it, you're
going to move too. Those folks take a lot of tender,
loving care, more so than a grizzled veteran who's
transferred every two to five years and just knows
it's a fact of life. So all of that was going on
externally. This third party thing also meant,
who was this individual incidentally? Wanda
Mason. Is she still doing it? She has now got one
child in college and came to me and said, I really
need to go sell custom homes in the woodlands
because I need to make more money. And she's at the
Custom Home Sales Office right now. And
we've replaced her with another lady. Melissa
Budacali is now handling that for us. And to
generally characterize the last half of the 80s,
what happened was the out-of-town market became
two-thirds of our home sales. And as we grew from
four to five to six to eight to this year, 1990,
we've closed the year with 901 new home sales. As
that sales rate has increased every year, this
out-of-towner factor of being around 65% has held
pretty constant. But
before I get into what has happened in the last two
years, the last part of the 80s, let me talk about
some of the internal things we did. And a lot of it is
thanks to the talent that Wanda brought to the job.
We found out that, this goes back to 85 when I got
here, that many realtors were very uncomfortable
trying to show homes in the woodlands.
The efforts that we put into saving the trees makes
it very difficult to remember which corner you're
at. And as a result, they would come in, they would
get lost. Oh, yeah. That's still the case. Another
factor is that our design and plan, which calls for
all price ranges of housing to be in each village,
created a problem for the realtor, which I was
unaware of until I just sat down and started
talking to a few of them. And I said, well, the
problem is that when a home buyer comes in and says,
I want to see homes between 90 and 100, or pick a
range, they go to their MLS computer. Do you want
all of this detail? Yeah, no, this is useful. OK. So
the key to us was to find a way to communicate with
the realtors and get them comfortable here. They
had several problems. One, they got lost. Two,
because of our village concept where we have all
price ranges,
I would think the low end would be excited about
that. The high end would say, this isn't so
wonderful.
If you go to the information center and see the
film, we will disarm a lot of that kind of economic
bigotry if you will and
it it somehow dissolves as a problem and I mean we do
have But, yeah. You have $400,000. Is it? Well,
it's... I mean, ever since I was little, I was told
that you buy the cheapest house in the
neighborhood. Yes. You know, for economic...
Yes. Yeah, I mean, that just makes sense. I
understand. You don't get the most expensive
thing in the neighborhood because you'll never
get your money out of it. I understand. We do not
have, or certainly none of the appraisers will
tell you that a given $100,000, $200,000,
$300,000, or $400,000 home...
in the woodlands anywhere is devalued because of
the proximity to another home near it. But that's a
real estate anomaly that exists in the woodlands.
No question about it. No question about it. But
going back to our problems with realtors, if you go
to the MLS machine and call up every for sale home
between 90 and 100, it'll start out at 100. 99, 98,
97, 96 on down sequentially. The realtor who would
take that list and go to the first home may go to
Grogan's Mill Village. The second home may be 20
minutes away in Cochran's Crossing. The third
home may be 15 minutes away in Panther Creek. And
there are Their offhand calloused reply was, I
don't show in the woodlands. I get lost. I spend too
much time driving from house to house because you
don't have all your homes like priced in a
convenient area where I can show every home in one
price range in a few minutes. So I mean, all of this
is very simple, but it was very profound at the
time. The one thing that every realtor tends to
have is a key map We went down to the key map company.
I happen to have this in front of me here. I'll
mention it while you're sitting here. What we did
was to go to key map and said, we want a key map of the
woodlands with your very same grid, your very same
indexing. And what we would really like is to make
the page about a quarter of an inch wider than
normal and put the woodlands on the tab. That way,
when we go to realtor conventions or we have open
houses, they can simply put this little tabular
key map in there ring binder, and suddenly they
have a key map of the woodlands. You paid for that?
We pay for it. We give it out annually. We do, much
like the National Association of Home Builders,
Houston has a Houston realtor rally. It brings in
10,000 realtors every year. From that, Wanda came
to me and said, we need to do a woodlands realtor
rally and get everything in the woodlands in one
place. The country club, the YMCA, the schools,
the shopping, everybody. We'll have all the
realtors that we can invite come out. They'll
learn everything in one-stop shopping, and it's
been a great success and grown from probably 100 to
700 or 800 this year came out. And we'll give them an
updated key map. The other thing we told them was
that they are welcome in the woodlands, and if they
will come to the information center while their
home buyer sees the film, we will then give them $10
or $20 gift certificate for lunch. In the
meantime, going back to that MLS printout, we
said, bring your printout in. Even though you know
we want to sell a new house, because we make money
selling the lots, we want you to be comfortable in
the woodlands. Here's a map to assist you when you
navigate the woodlands. And our staff at the
Information Center will take your MLS printout
and tell you, of the 10 homes you have listed, one,
five, and nine are right side by side. Two, four,
six, 10 are over here in this village. And we'll
prioritize your trip, save you some time. And one
on one, one at a time, one realtor would try it, and
then she would tell somebody in her office. And
then the next time that Wanda was at, one of the many
breakfast meetings or lunch meetings for a
realtor's association, we would give a door
prize, a weekend at the San Luis or some other
Woodlands affiliate, tell them they're welcome,
tell them to get the key map, tell them to come to the
information center, and then one or two people on
the dais who had been through the experience said,
I can tell you it really does work that way. And
slowly, word of mouth, we got the momentum going,
and it's working well. So the strategy remained
the same. The tactics changed. We just said,
what's your problem? How can we help? And that got
going great. But again, I have to credit Wanda. She
didn't stop there. In 87, another
external factor, and there's a lot of factors that
played into the last five years, the constriction
of capital for the home builder community became a
problem. And it became a big benefit for the
Woodlands. Loan committees would not make loans
for custom builders in lesser subdivisions. You
had to be on the north side. You had to be in Kingwood
or the Woodlands. And suddenly the realtors
quickly realized that they have somebody from out
of town. New homes in Houston tend to be cheaper
than wherever they're coming from. So suddenly
they can afford a brand new house. The realtors are
going to take them to the brand new housing. On the
north side, it happened to be Kingwood or the
Woodlands. The buyer comes in. The buyer buys new.
The loan committee says, see, it's safe to make
construction loans in the Woodlands. And so they
just would expand that line of credit to the max.
And we continually added to the new home sales
inventory. And the sales grew. And it became a
self-fulfilling prophecy. Why only the
Woodlands and Kingwood did? There are several.
Well, one, loan committees everywhere were
getting very paranoid about losing their jobs as
one bank after another was in trouble in Houston.
So they only wanted to make the safest possible
loans. This was in 87 we're talking about? Yeah.
And 87 was kind of the heyday. It's been throughout
the last part of the 80s. And
it was a spiral. It spiraled up for us and down for
some of the other smaller custom home communities
where you had less well-financed builders and in
fact for us it became an opportunity in that as the
FDIC and FSLIC would constrict how much money even
a an
operating bank could loan to a particular builder
as those loan limits shrunk We then animated
Mitchell Mortgage Company to institute a
construction lending department, and we then
would finance new home construction through our
mortgage company. And part of the strategy there
is, obviously it's a way to make money in
construction financing, but what about the risk?
Who is we in that? We own Mitchell Mortgage. Dale
Andrius runs Mitchell Mortgage. Is we the
Woodlands Corporation? We, the Woodlands Corp,
own Mitchell Mortgage. Yes. Did George Mitchell
anything to do with that? In terms of the decision
to make construction loans or institute a
mortgage company. Or the creation of the company.
I don't know. It was here when I got here. Oh. I can't
add to that. It's a logical extension when you have
the amount of business we're doing to go ahead and
form a mortgage company. Well, it fits some other
things that Mr. Mitchell has done. And it also is a
vehicle for us to... finance apartment projects
or other non-residential financing
opportunities, be it apartments or
non-woodlands projects. I mean, they're just a
bona fide. Or commercial stuff out here on the
research forest drive. Yes, yes. Yeah, they can
work on that. They're in that marketplace. So then
what we had going was a healthy inventory the
turnstiles were working well with realtors
bringing in home buyers and then the realtors said
the problem is my people don't have enough time to
wait for your home builders to finish the
construction of the new home. The employer here to
for many times would give the employees several
trips to make a home buying decision. Now they
said, we can only afford one or two. So they had to
make a quick decision. And frequently, they
wanted they were dead set on getting brand new
housing. But they had an interim housing problem
where to live while their new home was completed.
At the time, I think we had or at least a 15% vacancy
rate in our apartment that we own, some 1,200 or
1,300 apartments or 1,900 apartments that we own.
So Wanda said, let's go rent some furniture and put
in a Mr. Coffee and the television. And most of
these people have a housing allowance. The
employer will pay the rent. We can rent
apartments. They only have to unpack one time. And
if we're lucky, we'll get them an apartment in the
same area where their child is going to go to
elementary or middle school, and let's see if we
can rent some of our own apartments. And it then
snowballed into about 25 apartments that we
leased from the apartment group, furnished them,
helped these people move in and move out. and
probably cycled somewhere around a third of our
custom home buyers spent some time in the interim
apartment or interim housing project program.
And
it was a lot of little things, all of which worked
very well. Most of those programs are still in
place today. The nature of the out-of-town buyer
changed in late 88, or no, I should say late 89 to 90,
and that is We no longer had a few major employers
transferring tens to hundreds of people to
Houston. Houston's cutbacks in the energy
companies were very, very severe in 85, 86. And as
it turns out, their business did not get worse. It
either held or improved. And in the start of 1990,
we took account found that we had almost 400
employers
talking about hiring two to six people during
1990. And so suddenly we had the inverse of what had
happened in 86, 87, 88, which was a very few
companies moving many people to Houston. Now we
had a much healthier economy. We had many
companies hiring people, not shutting down an
office elsewhere. But again, it translated into
an out-of-town buyer. So the out-of-town buyer
for the Woodlands and most of the other
communities in Houston was the real saving grace
for new home sales in the last part of the 80s. What
would you say has been the mix? About two-thirds,
one-third. There's been a real steady
relationship. Two-thirds out-of-town,
one-third. And you have new household formations
locally. You have people that are uh if you go back
to the late 70s early 80s when the first time buyer
market was the strong market u.s homes general
homes and others those people had had children
they were then if you will upside down in their
house that wasn't worth the debt and they those
that stayed employed and stuck it out through the
mid-'80s suddenly needed more room. And once
their home could sell for debt or even lose money on
the house, they had seen the flight to quality.
They had seen values in the major communities not
fall like they fell in the lesser communities. And
so I think the educated Houstonian who witnessed
the decline in value in the Houston area has
learned that the bigger master plan communities
didn't suffer as badly as the other communities
did. And their tendency will be, I think, when they
make a move, to continue moving to the bigger
communities and have a little safer environment
in which to make their home buying investment. And
investment's not a term we even talk about. But
it's, as you said a moment ago, you always buy the
cheapest house on the block and hope to ride the
coattails of inflation. That's part of every home
buying decision. And there is some safety in
buying in the bigger communities. And the
Houstonians have learned it, the realtors know
it, and in a way it's a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Everybody believes it, so it happens that way.
Within a given price range, I would think, and I may
be wrong about this, but I would think that the
woodlands homes might be slightly more
expensive. I mean, comparing feature for feature
and what have you because of the restrictions and
the attention paid to quality. Has that at any time
been perceived? Obviously, with some it's going
to, but with others, it manifestly has not been a
deterrent to sales. It's definitely a factor, and
it probably always has been in the woodlands a
factor in that
we do surveys every six months for all of the
greater Houston area as to lot prices and the price
of the home built on the lot and what the home buyer
pays. And we will be at the top. or very shortly be at
the top. And we, as a strategy to serve the
stockholders, will try and make as much money as
possible. And you do that by getting more for the
lot than, or you get as much for the lot as the market
will stand. But I think that when faced with the
question as comes up, why is this home more
expensive here than in some other community? And
certainly when you have the production builders,
Rylan Pulte Village Weekly, who build in multiple
locations, who the salesman will tell you, our
same Brookside model in another subdivision is
less than here in the Woodlands.
They simply then have to get them in the car, show
them the bike trails, show them the parks, show
them the amenities, and talk about the lifestyle,
and then ask them to choose. And if they will, I
think in every market study we've ever done, the
majority of the cause of a visit was a
recommendation from a friend or relative who
lives in the woodlands. And so it's been
interesting to me to see in the five and a half years
that I've been here that no matter how hard we try to
describe this place in print or radio or
videotape, the selling takes place when one
resident talks to a nonresident and there's
something in their tone There's some, I'm
thinking now of a fellow that moved in across the
street from my home who said, I was on a plane
talking with a high school kid that went to
McCullough High School. And I asked him, where did
he live? And he started telling me all about the
woodlands. And it was the tone and what this young
man said that led the guy to bring his wife and kids
to come and take a look at the woodlands. And I would
venture to say that he could have read our ads, and
maybe he would have come. But the tone and the
conversation is what made him make a mental note to
be sure to come. And that's where you
convince the would-be home buyer to come and take a
look and talk to people. And the more they talk, the
more they're going to learn. And then they're
going to find out that there's more to it the list
price on our inventory roster versus some other
location's inventory roster. And once they see
the film and get a feel for the scope of the
Woodlands, because it is unlike any other
development, it's not a subdivision, it's not
like anything that they're familiar with, nor
could they necessarily imagine that there would
be a place like it. This one has a different
philosophy. Yeah, it's a unique philosophy, a
unique development. And it takes some time to
understand, to say the least. In these same
marketing studies, have you identified? I
mean, that's the positive side. You know why they
came. What happens to people who don't? is there is
there a flip side to that the people that come and
say no thank you yeah um we've done a lot of market
research certainly over the years kingwood has
been the number one competitor and we'll do a lot of
survey work with both
there are many people who prefer to have
a very crisp, clean, manicured, landscaped look
to their community. And the natural look is not one
that they're comfortable with, and they say, no,
thank you. And it's like, tastes great, less
spilling. There's arguments on both sides. The
ones here either liked it in the beginning,
learned to like it, and many times converts are the
more ardent believers. Sure, you bet. Once they
see from the other things that we do, like the Arbor
Day or the Wildflower Festivals, where we give
away seeds or we give away saplings and plant
forty-some thousand trees every Arbor Day, and
then they see that the forest regrows itself and
they plug into that,
what you end up with is, we did a survey last year in
the shopping mall near Kingwood. And Kingwood
themselves then did a follow-up survey. And in
talking with the research firm that did the work,
the young lady that I spoke with said that they were
startled in their interviews to talk with
existing Kingwood residents. And the question
was, if you were transferred out of the Houston
area, and then in three or four years you came back,
where would you consider buying when you were
transferred back to Houston in, say, 1994. The
Woodlands had a loyalty factor that was virtually
100%. And they said in all of the times that they've
ever done surveys, be it for Kingwood or any other
community, every other community had a much lower
loyalty factor than the Woodlands residents. And
so it goes back to my statement about being
converted into believing and understanding what
the Woodlands is all about. That doesn't surprise
me at all. The question I guess I'm trying to get at
is, is the Woodlands not in fact pre-selecting,
in a large number of cases at least, people who have
an affinity for, you mentioned the lady from
Minnesota, people who have an affinity for trees,
people who have an affinity for athletic, you
know, the amenities which the Woodlands
provides. Someone in Kingwood, for example,
Kingwood isn't that different than dozens of
other communities around. And so there is not...
You don't buy into any unique set of philosophies
and what have you. You could substitute that for
any number of others. The Woodlands isn't. If you
take a look... Let me try and answer your question
this way. If you take a look at the brochures or the
magazines or the newspaper ads, and you look at...
Even in West Houston, in areas where the only trees
are the ones that they've planted beside their
hiking bike trail, you will find that most of them
photographically appear to be heavily wooded,
well amenityed with tennis courts and swimming
pools. And you read the list of what do you have in
your community, and they're going to read very
similar. And if you take a look at what Mother
Nature gave Kingwood the woodlands there's a lot
of similarities East Texas piney forest and they
have chosen to develop theirs in a manicured
fashion we've done a different fashion I think the
consumer once
they visit each of the communities is not going to
understand the difference until they talk to the
residents or the salespeople or spend a little bit
of time in the community and that's
where this tone in the conversation becomes so
important and I think that's one of the keys to why
they do decide to come or not to come. What is it
though? Is it the woods? Is it a combination of all
of the above? Have you identified the, well, case
in point, my secretary, we'll be transcribing
this, Terry. My secretary is from Massachusetts
and is enamored with West Texas, something which I
have never quite understood. But nevertheless,
it exists, and I think she's sincere about that. A
place like the Woodlands probably would not
fascinate her in the least. You see what I'm
saying? And that's why I ask, are you
pre-selecting for a certain type of personality
trait? Is there, in fact, a personality profile of
people who live in the woodlands or become
converted to the woodlands? Is there, in fact, a
one overwhelming thing? Is it a package of half a
dozen? Do you understand what I'm saying?
I'll try and answer that in several fashions. You
can get some statistics and numbers from Mail
DuPay. part of this buyer profile of Kingwood
residents versus the Woodlands. We will have more
self-employeds. We will tend to have more
independent thinkers.
They will tend to have more of the
conspicuous consumers, the more joiners. they
mean king kingwood more uh conspicuous
consumption the kind of people who when they say i
live at falcon point they know that the listener
understands they can afford falcon point and they
want to make that statement and the woodlands you
know my my corny comparison is that You know, the
kids get on the school bus here and they're all
wearing guest jeans. Some of them are
hand-me-downs and some of them are from
low-income housing where they bought them at a
resale shop. The kids know who's who and the kids
know who's got the money, but at least they're all
on the same school bus together. You know, we're
not going to turn around mankind in one community
or one development, but in a way that's a little bit
more real world to come to grips with the fact that
the world is comprised of many people other than
just your peers or your parents' peers. And that's
nothing that you're going to understand on a first
visit.
The challenge for us, and especially if you talk to
some of the people that have been here longer than
myself, is to maintain this small town kind of
feel. For example,